docs/CONFIGURATION.md, before:

# Configuration Reference

Complete configuration reference for the Firefly Common Client Library.

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Configuration Properties](#configuration-properties)
- [REST Configuration](#rest-configuration)
- [gRPC Configuration](#grpc-configuration)
- [Circuit Breaker Configuration](#circuit-breaker-configuration)
- [Retry Configuration](#retry-configuration)
- [Metrics Configuration](#metrics-configuration)
- [Security Configuration](#security-configuration)
- [Environment-Specific Configuration](#environment-specific-configuration)
- [Programmatic Configuration](#programmatic-configuration)

## Overview

The library uses Spring Boot's configuration system with the prefix `firefly.service-client`. All properties can be configured via:

- `application.yml` or `application.properties`
- Environment variables (e.g., `FIREFLY_SERVICE_CLIENT_ENABLED=true`)
- Command-line arguments (e.g., `--firefly.service-client.enabled=true`)
- Programmatic configuration via Java beans

## Configuration Properties

### Global Settings

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    enabled: true                    # Enable/disable auto-configuration (default: true)
    default-timeout: 30s             # Default timeout for all operations (default: 30s)
    environment: DEVELOPMENT         # Environment: DEVELOPMENT, TESTING, PRODUCTION (default: DEVELOPMENT)
    
    # Global default headers applied to all requests
    default-headers:
      User-Agent: "MyApp/1.0"
      X-Client-Version: "1.0.0"
```

## REST Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    rest:
      # Connection Pool Settings
      max-connections: 100           # Maximum number of connections (default: 100)
      max-idle-time: 5m              # Maximum idle time for connections (default: 5m)
      max-life-time: 30m             # Maximum lifetime for connections (default: 30m)
      pending-acquire-timeout: 10s   # Timeout for acquiring connection from pool (default: 10s)
      
      # Timeout Settings
      response-timeout: 30s          # Response timeout (default: 30s)
      connect-timeout: 10s           # Connection timeout (default: 10s)
      read-timeout: 30s              # Read timeout (default: 30s)
      
      # HTTP Settings
      compression-enabled: true      # Enable HTTP compression (default: true)
      follow-redirects: true         # Follow HTTP redirects (default: true)
      max-in-memory-size: 1048576    # Max in-memory buffer size in bytes (default: 1MB)
      
      # Retry Settings
      max-retries: 3                 # Maximum retry attempts (default: 3)
      
      # Content Type Settings
      default-content-type: "application/json"  # Default Content-Type header
      default-accept-type: "application/json"   # Default Accept header
      
      # Logging
      logging-enabled: false         # Enable request/response logging (default: false)
```

### REST Configuration Details

| Property | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `max-connections` | Integer | 100 | Maximum number of HTTP connections in the pool |
| `max-idle-time` | Duration | 5m | How long a connection can be idle before being closed |
| `max-life-time` | Duration | 30m | Maximum lifetime of a connection |
| `pending-acquire-timeout` | Duration | 10s | Timeout when waiting for a connection from the pool |
| `response-timeout` | Duration | 30s | Maximum time to wait for a response |
| `connect-timeout` | Duration | 10s | Maximum time to establish a connection |
| `read-timeout` | Duration | 30s | Maximum time to read response data |
| `compression-enabled` | Boolean | true | Enable gzip compression for requests/responses |
| `follow-redirects` | Boolean | true | Automatically follow HTTP redirects |
| `max-in-memory-size` | Integer | 1048576 | Maximum size of in-memory buffer (1MB) |
| `max-retries` | Integer | 3 | Maximum number of retry attempts |
| `logging-enabled` | Boolean | false | Enable detailed request/response logging |

## gRPC Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    grpc:
      # Keep-Alive Settings
      keep-alive-time: 5m            # Keep-alive ping interval (default: 5m)
      keep-alive-timeout: 30s        # Keep-alive ping timeout (default: 30s)
      keep-alive-without-calls: true # Send keep-alive pings even without active calls (default: true)
      
      # Message Size Limits
      max-inbound-message-size: 4194304   # Max inbound message size in bytes (default: 4MB)
      max-inbound-metadata-size: 8192     # Max inbound metadata size in bytes (default: 8KB)
      
      # Timeout Settings
      call-timeout: 30s              # Default call timeout (default: 30s)
      
      # Retry Settings
      retry-enabled: true            # Enable gRPC retries (default: true)
      
      # Security Settings
      use-plaintext-by-default: true # Use plaintext by default (default: true for dev)
      
      # Performance Settings
      compression-enabled: true      # Enable message compression (default: true)
      max-concurrent-streams: 100    # Maximum concurrent streams per connection (default: 100)
```

### gRPC Configuration Details

| Property | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `keep-alive-time` | Duration | 5m | Interval between keep-alive pings |
| `keep-alive-timeout` | Duration | 30s | Timeout for keep-alive ping response |
| `keep-alive-without-calls` | Boolean | true | Send pings even without active calls |
| `max-inbound-message-size` | Integer | 4194304 | Maximum size of inbound messages (4MB) |
| `max-inbound-metadata-size` | Integer | 8192 | Maximum size of inbound metadata (8KB) |
| `call-timeout` | Duration | 30s | Default timeout for gRPC calls |
| `retry-enabled` | Boolean | true | Enable automatic retries for failed calls |
| `use-plaintext-by-default` | Boolean | true | Use plaintext (no TLS) by default |
| `compression-enabled` | Boolean | true | Enable message compression |
| `max-concurrent-streams` | Integer | 100 | Maximum concurrent streams |

## Circuit Breaker Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    circuit-breaker:
      enabled: true                                           # Enable circuit breaker (default: true)
      failure-rate-threshold: 50.0                            # Failure rate threshold percentage (default: 50%)
      minimum-number-of-calls: 5                              # Minimum calls before calculating failure rate (default: 5)
      sliding-window-size: 10                                 # Size of sliding window (default: 10)
      wait-duration-in-open-state: 60s                        # Wait time in OPEN state (default: 60s)
      permitted-number-of-calls-in-half-open-state: 3         # Calls allowed in HALF_OPEN state (default: 3)
      max-wait-duration-in-half-open-state: 30s               # Max wait in HALF_OPEN state (default: 30s)
      call-timeout: 10s                                       # Call timeout (default: 10s)
      slow-call-duration-threshold: 5s                        # Threshold for slow calls (default: 5s)
      slow-call-rate-threshold: 100.0                         # Slow call rate threshold percentage (default: 100%)
      automatic-transition-from-open-to-half-open-enabled: true  # Auto transition to HALF_OPEN (default: true)
```

### Circuit Breaker States

- **CLOSED**: Normal operation, all requests pass through
- **OPEN**: Circuit is open, requests are rejected immediately
- **HALF_OPEN**: Testing if service has recovered, limited requests allowed

### Circuit Breaker Configuration Details

| Property | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enabled` | Boolean | true | Enable circuit breaker functionality |
| `failure-rate-threshold` | Double | 50.0 | Percentage of failures to open circuit (0-100) |
| `minimum-number-of-calls` | Integer | 5 | Minimum calls before evaluating failure rate |
| `sliding-window-size` | Integer | 10 | Number of calls in the sliding window |
| `wait-duration-in-open-state` | Duration | 60s | How long to wait before transitioning to HALF_OPEN |
| `permitted-number-of-calls-in-half-open-state` | Integer | 3 | Number of test calls in HALF_OPEN state |
| `call-timeout` | Duration | 10s | Timeout for individual calls |
| `slow-call-duration-threshold` | Duration | 5s | Duration threshold for slow calls |
| `slow-call-rate-threshold` | Double | 100.0 | Percentage of slow calls to open circuit |

## Retry Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    retry:
      enabled: true                  # Enable retry mechanism (default: true)
      max-attempts: 3                # Maximum retry attempts (default: 3)
      initial-interval: 1s           # Initial retry interval (default: 1s)
      multiplier: 2.0                # Backoff multiplier (default: 2.0)
      max-interval: 30s              # Maximum retry interval (default: 30s)
```

### Retry Backoff Example

With default settings:
- Attempt 1: Immediate
- Attempt 2: Wait 1s
- Attempt 3: Wait 2s (1s × 2.0)
- Attempt 4: Wait 4s (2s × 2.0)

## Metrics Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    metrics:
      enabled: true                  # Enable metrics collection (default: true)
      collect-detailed-metrics: false # Collect detailed per-endpoint metrics (default: false)
      histogram-buckets: [0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1, 10]  # Histogram buckets in seconds
```

### Available Metrics

When metrics are enabled, the following metrics are collected:

- `service.client.requests.total` - Total number of requests
- `service.client.requests.duration` - Request duration histogram
- `service.client.requests.errors` - Total number of errors
- `service.client.circuit.breaker.state` - Circuit breaker state gauge
- `service.client.circuit.breaker.calls` - Circuit breaker call counters

## Security Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    security:
      tls-enabled: false             # Enable TLS/SSL (default: false)
      trust-store-path: ""           # Path to trust store
      trust-store-password: ""       # Trust store password
      key-store-path: ""             # Path to key store (for mTLS)
      key-store-password: ""         # Key store password
```

## Environment-Specific Configuration

### Development Environment

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    environment: DEVELOPMENT
    rest:
      logging-enabled: true
      max-connections: 50
    circuit-breaker:
      failure-rate-threshold: 75.0   # More lenient
      minimum-number-of-calls: 10
```

### Production Environment

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    environment: PRODUCTION
    rest:
      logging-enabled: false
      max-connections: 200
    circuit-breaker:
      failure-rate-threshold: 50.0   # Stricter
      minimum-number-of-calls: 5
    security:
      tls-enabled: true
```

## Programmatic Configuration

### Custom Circuit Breaker Configuration

```java
@Configuration
public class CustomCircuitBreakerConfig {
    
    @Bean
    public CircuitBreakerConfig customCircuitBreakerConfig() {
        return CircuitBreakerConfig.builder()
            .failureRateThreshold(60.0)
            .minimumNumberOfCalls(10)
            .slidingWindowSize(20)
            .waitDurationInOpenState(Duration.ofMinutes(2))
            .permittedNumberOfCallsInHalfOpenState(5)
            .callTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(15))
            .build();
    }
}
```

### Custom REST Client Configuration

```java
@Configuration
public class CustomRestClientConfig {
    
    @Bean
    public ServiceClient customServiceClient() {
        return ServiceClient.rest("custom-service")
            .baseUrl("https://api.example.com")
            .timeout(Duration.ofSeconds(45))
            .maxConnections(150)
            .defaultHeader("Authorization", "Bearer ${token}")
            .defaultHeader("X-API-Version", "v2")
            .jsonContentType()
            .build();
    }
}
```

## Configuration Validation

The library validates configuration on startup. Invalid configurations will cause the application to fail fast with descriptive error messages.

### Common Validation Rules

- Timeouts must be positive durations
- Connection pool sizes must be > 0
- Failure rate thresholds must be between 0 and 100
- Retry attempts must be >= 0

## Best Practices

1. **Use environment-specific profiles** - Separate configurations for dev, test, and prod
2. **Enable metrics in production** - Essential for monitoring and troubleshooting
3. **Tune circuit breaker settings** - Based on your service's characteristics
4. **Use TLS in production** - Always enable security for production environments
5. **Monitor connection pools** - Adjust `max-connections` based on load
6. **Set appropriate timeouts** - Balance between user experience and resource usage

## Troubleshooting

### Circuit Breaker Opening Too Frequently

Increase `failure-rate-threshold` or `minimum-number-of-calls`:

```yaml
circuit-breaker:
  failure-rate-threshold: 75.0
  minimum-number-of-calls: 10
```

### Connection Pool Exhaustion

Increase `max-connections` or reduce `max-idle-time`:

```yaml
rest:
  max-connections: 200
  max-idle-time: 2m
```

### Slow Requests

Adjust timeout settings:

```yaml
rest:
  response-timeout: 60s
  read-timeout: 60s
```

---

**Copyright © 2025 Firefly Software Solutions Inc**

Commit message:

docs: update project documentation and guides
- Update README.md with latest features and usage examples
- Enhance CONFIGURATION.md with comprehensive configuration options
- Improve TESTING.md with detailed testing strategies and examples
- Add documentation for new metrics and monitoring capabilities

docs/CONFIGURATION.md, after:

# Configuration Reference

Complete configuration reference for the Firefly Common Client Library.

> **Note:** This documentation reflects the actual configuration properties defined in `ServiceClientProperties.java`. All examples and default values are accurate as of the current codebase version.

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Configuration Properties](#configuration-properties)
- [REST Configuration](#rest-configuration)
- [gRPC Configuration](#grpc-configuration)
- [Circuit Breaker Configuration](#circuit-breaker-configuration)
- [Retry Configuration](#retry-configuration)
- [Metrics Configuration](#metrics-configuration)
- [Security Configuration](#security-configuration)
- [Environment-Specific Configuration](#environment-specific-configuration)
- [Programmatic Configuration](#programmatic-configuration)

## Overview

The library uses Spring Boot's configuration system with the prefix `firefly.service-client`. All properties can be configured via:

- `application.yml` or `application.properties`
- Environment variables (e.g., `FIREFLY_SERVICE_CLIENT_ENABLED=true`)
- Command-line arguments (e.g., `--firefly.service-client.enabled=true`)
- Programmatic configuration via Java beans

## Configuration Properties

### Global Settings

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    enabled: true                    # Enable/disable auto-configuration (default: true)
    default-timeout: 30s             # Default timeout for all operations (default: 30s)
    environment: DEVELOPMENT         # Environment: DEVELOPMENT, TESTING, PRODUCTION (default: DEVELOPMENT)
    
    # Global default headers applied to all requests
    default-headers:
      User-Agent: "MyApp/1.0"
      X-Client-Version: "1.0.0"
```

## REST Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    rest:
      # Connection Pool Settings
      max-connections: 100           # Maximum number of connections (default: 100)
      max-idle-time: 5m              # Maximum idle time for connections (default: 5m)
      max-life-time: 30m             # Maximum lifetime for connections (default: 30m)
      pending-acquire-timeout: 10s   # Timeout for acquiring connection from pool (default: 10s)
      
      # Timeout Settings
      response-timeout: 30s          # Response timeout (default: 30s)
      connect-timeout: 10s           # Connection timeout (default: 10s)
      read-timeout: 30s              # Read timeout (default: 30s)
      
      # HTTP Settings
      compression-enabled: true      # Enable HTTP compression (default: true)
      follow-redirects: true         # Follow HTTP redirects (default: true)
      max-in-memory-size: 1048576    # Max in-memory buffer size in bytes (default: 1MB)
      
      # Retry Settings
      max-retries: 3                 # Maximum retry attempts (default: 3)
      
      # Content Type Settings
      default-content-type: "application/json"  # Default Content-Type header
      default-accept-type: "application/json"   # Default Accept header
      
      # Logging
      logging-enabled: false         # Enable request/response logging (default: false)
```

### REST Configuration Details

| Property | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `max-connections` | Integer | 100 | Maximum number of HTTP connections in the pool |
| `max-idle-time` | Duration | 5m | How long a connection can be idle before being closed |
| `max-life-time` | Duration | 30m | Maximum lifetime of a connection |
| `pending-acquire-timeout` | Duration | 10s | Timeout when waiting for a connection from the pool |
| `response-timeout` | Duration | 30s | Maximum time to wait for a response |
| `connect-timeout` | Duration | 10s | Maximum time to establish a connection |
| `read-timeout` | Duration | 30s | Maximum time to read response data |
| `compression-enabled` | Boolean | true | Enable gzip compression for requests/responses |
| `follow-redirects` | Boolean | true | Automatically follow HTTP redirects |
| `max-in-memory-size` | Integer | 1048576 | Maximum size of in-memory buffer (1MB) |
| `max-retries` | Integer | 3 | Maximum number of retry attempts |
| `logging-enabled` | Boolean | false | Enable detailed request/response logging |

## gRPC Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    grpc:
      # Keep-Alive Settings
      keep-alive-time: 5m            # Keep-alive ping interval (default: 5m)
      keep-alive-timeout: 30s        # Keep-alive ping timeout (default: 30s)
      keep-alive-without-calls: true # Send keep-alive pings even without active calls (default: true)
      
      # Message Size Limits
      max-inbound-message-size: 4194304   # Max inbound message size in bytes (default: 4MB)
      max-inbound-metadata-size: 8192     # Max inbound metadata size in bytes (default: 8KB)
      
      # Timeout Settings
      call-timeout: 30s              # Default call timeout (default: 30s)
      
      # Retry Settings
      retry-enabled: true            # Enable gRPC retries (default: true)
      
      # Security Settings
      use-plaintext-by-default: true # Use plaintext by default (default: true for dev)
      
      # Performance Settings
      compression-enabled: true      # Enable message compression (default: true)
      max-concurrent-streams: 100    # Maximum concurrent streams per connection (default: 100)
```

### gRPC Configuration Details

| Property | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `keep-alive-time` | Duration | 5m | Interval between keep-alive pings |
| `keep-alive-timeout` | Duration | 30s | Timeout for keep-alive ping response |
| `keep-alive-without-calls` | Boolean | true | Send pings even without active calls |
| `max-inbound-message-size` | Integer | 4194304 | Maximum size of inbound messages (4MB) |
| `max-inbound-metadata-size` | Integer | 8192 | Maximum size of inbound metadata (8KB) |
| `call-timeout` | Duration | 30s | Default timeout for gRPC calls |
| `retry-enabled` | Boolean | true | Enable automatic retries for failed calls |
| `use-plaintext-by-default` | Boolean | true | Use plaintext (no TLS) by default |
| `compression-enabled` | Boolean | true | Enable message compression |
| `max-concurrent-streams` | Integer | 100 | Maximum concurrent streams |

## Circuit Breaker Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    circuit-breaker:
      enabled: true                                           # Enable circuit breaker (default: true)
      failure-rate-threshold: 50.0                            # Failure rate threshold percentage (default: 50%)
      minimum-number-of-calls: 5                              # Minimum calls before calculating failure rate (default: 5)
      sliding-window-size: 10                                 # Size of sliding window (default: 10)
      wait-duration-in-open-state: 60s                        # Wait time in OPEN state (default: 60s)
      permitted-number-of-calls-in-half-open-state: 3         # Calls allowed in HALF_OPEN state (default: 3)
      max-wait-duration-in-half-open-state: 30s               # Max wait in HALF_OPEN state (default: 30s)
      call-timeout: 10s                                       # Call timeout (default: 10s)
      slow-call-duration-threshold: 5s                        # Threshold for slow calls (default: 5s)
      slow-call-rate-threshold: 100.0                         # Slow call rate threshold percentage (default: 100%)
      automatic-transition-from-open-to-half-open-enabled: true  # Auto transition to HALF_OPEN (default: true)
```

### Circuit Breaker States

- **CLOSED**: Normal operation, all requests pass through
- **OPEN**: Circuit is open, requests are rejected immediately
- **HALF_OPEN**: Testing if service has recovered, limited requests allowed

### Circuit Breaker Configuration Details

| Property | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enabled` | Boolean | true | Enable circuit breaker functionality |
| `failure-rate-threshold` | Double | 50.0 | Percentage of failures to open circuit (0-100) |
| `minimum-number-of-calls` | Integer | 5 | Minimum calls before evaluating failure rate |
| `sliding-window-size` | Integer | 10 | Number of calls in the sliding window |
| `wait-duration-in-open-state` | Duration | 60s | How long to wait before transitioning to HALF_OPEN |
| `permitted-number-of-calls-in-half-open-state` | Integer | 3 | Number of test calls in HALF_OPEN state |
| `call-timeout` | Duration | 10s | Timeout for individual calls |
| `slow-call-duration-threshold` | Duration | 5s | Duration threshold for slow calls |
| `slow-call-rate-threshold` | Double | 100.0 | Percentage of slow calls to open circuit |

## Retry Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    retry:
      enabled: true                  # Enable retry mechanism (default: true)
      max-attempts: 3                # Maximum retry attempts (default: 3)
      initial-interval: 1s           # Initial retry interval (default: 1s)
      multiplier: 2.0                # Backoff multiplier (default: 2.0)
      max-interval: 30s              # Maximum retry interval (default: 30s)
```

### Retry Backoff Example

With default settings:
- Attempt 1: Immediate
- Attempt 2: Wait 1s
- Attempt 3: Wait 2s (1s × 2.0)
- Attempt 4: Wait 4s (2s × 2.0)

## Metrics Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    metrics:
      enabled: true                  # Enable metrics collection (default: true)
      collect-detailed-metrics: false # Collect detailed per-endpoint metrics (default: false)
      histogram-buckets: [0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1, 10]  # Histogram buckets in seconds
```

### Available Metrics

When metrics are enabled, the following metrics are collected:

- `service.client.requests.total` - Total number of requests
- `service.client.requests.duration` - Request duration histogram
- `service.client.requests.errors` - Total number of errors
- `service.client.circuit.breaker.state` - Circuit breaker state gauge
- `service.client.circuit.breaker.calls` - Circuit breaker call counters

## Security Configuration

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    security:
      tls-enabled: false             # Enable TLS/SSL (default: false)
      trust-store-path: ""           # Path to trust store
      trust-store-password: ""       # Trust store password
      key-store-path: ""             # Path to key store (for mTLS)
      key-store-password: ""         # Key store password
```

## Environment-Specific Configuration

### Development Environment

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    environment: DEVELOPMENT
    rest:
      logging-enabled: true
      max-connections: 50
    circuit-breaker:
      failure-rate-threshold: 75.0   # More lenient
      minimum-number-of-calls: 10
```

### Production Environment

```yaml
firefly:
  service-client:
    environment: PRODUCTION
    rest:
      logging-enabled: false
      max-connections: 200
    circuit-breaker:
      failure-rate-threshold: 50.0   # Stricter
      minimum-number-of-calls: 5
    security:
      tls-enabled: true
```

## Programmatic Configuration

### Custom Circuit Breaker Configuration

```java
@Configuration
public class CustomCircuitBreakerConfig {
    
    @Bean
    public CircuitBreakerConfig customCircuitBreakerConfig() {
        return CircuitBreakerConfig.builder()
            .failureRateThreshold(60.0)
            .minimumNumberOfCalls(10)
            .slidingWindowSize(20)
            .waitDurationInOpenState(Duration.ofMinutes(2))
            .permittedNumberOfCallsInHalfOpenState(5)
            .callTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(15))
            .build();
    }
}
```

### Custom REST Client Configuration

```java
@Configuration
public class CustomRestClientConfig {
    
    @Bean
    public ServiceClient customServiceClient() {
        return ServiceClient.rest("custom-service")
            .baseUrl("https://api.example.com")
            .timeout(Duration.ofSeconds(45))
            .maxConnections(150)
            .defaultHeader("Authorization", "Bearer ${token}")
            .defaultHeader("X-API-Version", "v2")
            .jsonContentType()
            .build();
    }
}
```

## Configuration Validation

The library validates configuration on startup. Invalid configurations will cause the application to fail fast with descriptive error messages.

### Common Validation Rules

- Timeouts must be positive durations
- Connection pool sizes must be > 0
- Failure rate thresholds must be between 0 and 100
- Retry attempts must be >= 0

## Best Practices

1. **Use environment-specific profiles** - Separate configurations for dev, test, and prod
2. **Enable metrics in production** - Essential for monitoring and troubleshooting
3. **Tune circuit breaker settings** - Based on your service's characteristics
4. **Use TLS in production** - Always enable security for production environments
5. **Monitor connection pools** - Adjust `max-connections` based on load
6. **Set appropriate timeouts** - Balance between user experience and resource usage

## Troubleshooting

### Circuit Breaker Opening Too Frequently

Increase `failure-rate-threshold` or `minimum-number-of-calls`:

```yaml
circuit-breaker:
  failure-rate-threshold: 75.0
  minimum-number-of-calls: 10
```

### Connection Pool Exhaustion

Increase `max-connections` or reduce `max-idle-time`:

```yaml
rest:
  max-connections: 200
  max-idle-time: 2m
```

### Slow Requests

Adjust timeout settings:

```yaml
rest:
  response-timeout: 60s
  read-timeout: 60s
```

---

**Copyright © 2025 Firefly Software Solutions Inc**
